Welcome to InfoSec Computer
Forensics Bootcamp.
My name is Denise Duffy,
you can see I have my
cellphone number up there.
I'm going to be your instructor
for this learning path.
I have a background
in law enforcement,
I was part of an ICAC unit,
Internet Crimes Against Children.
I did digital and
mobile forensics,
I handled cases such as child
exploitation, narcotics,
suicide, sexual
assault, homicide,
home invasion, theft,
missing persons.
I've handled a variety
of different cases.
I also have handled
some fraud cases.
After I retired, I work
in the private sector for
CyforTec Group and
we handle a lot of
IP theft cases for
major companies,
we handle intrusion cases and
a variety of civil cases.
I work both in the public
and private sectors.
Our learning objectives for
this path is we're going to
come to understand
what it means to have
a mindset of a computer
forensic examiner.
We're going to
understand the methods
we use when we're
doing the examination,
why they are so important and
how they are useful to us.
We're going to develop skills
that most examiners have.
We're going to expose you to
a wide variety of forensic
tools and techniques,
we're going to show you
some advanced concepts,
you're going to
get some exposure.
We're going to prepare you for
further study in the
forensics field,
because this will not
be your last course.
We're also going to prepare
you for the CCFE exam.
A little bit about this course,
it is not an expert level
computer forensics course,
this is the beginning,
we're going
to touch on everything,
but we're really not going to
get to dive into too much.
This is a foundations course,
we need to start,
we need to walk
before we can run.
We're going to touch on
everything a computer forensic
examiner needs to know.
This is a great overview
of everything we're going to see,
but additional study beyond
this course is going
to be required.
The best way to learn computer
forensics is by doing,
hands-on, and active
participation.
A little bit more about
our certification exam,
the certifying body,
the people that issued
the certificate is
the IACRB in the Certified
Computer Forensic Examiner,
the CCFE test.
It's going to test your
fundamental knowledge
of computer forensics,
evidence recovery in
the analysis process.
You're going to be evaluated on
your knowledge of both
the hard and soft skills,
you're going to be tested
on the soft skills,
you've got to prove that you have
the requisite
background knowledge of
the complex legal issues that are
related to the computer
forensics field.
It's going to be multiple choice,
50 questions, you must get
a passing score of 70,
you have a time
duration of two hours,
so there is a time limit,
but it's plenty of time
don't worry about it
and the test's format
in multiple-choice.
There's no essays or hands
on practical in this test.
Let's get started.